1.Checkers is played by two players. Each player begins the game with 12 colored discs. 
  (Typically, one set of pieces is black and the other red.)

2. The board consists of 64 squares, alternating between 32 dark and 32 light squares. 
   It is positioned so that each player has a light square on the right side corner closest to him 
   or her.

3. Each player places his or her pieces on the 12 dark squares closest to him or her.

4. Black moves first. Players then alternate moves.

5. Moves are allowed only on the dark squares, so pieces always move diagonally. Single pieces are
   always limited to forward moves (toward the opponent).

6. A piece making a non-capturing move (not involving a jump) may move only one square.

7. A piece making a capturing move (a jump) leaps over one of the opponent's pieces, landing in a  
   straight diagonal line on the other side. Only one piece may be captured in a single jump; 
   however, multiple jumps are allowed on a single turn.

8. When a piece is captured, it is removed from the board.

9. If a player is able to make a capture, there is no option -- the jump must be made. If more than  
   one capture is available, the player is free to choose whichever he or she prefers.

10. When a piece reaches the furthest row from the player who controls that piece, it is crowned and 
    becomes a king. One of the pieces which had been captured is placed on top of the king so that it 
    is twice as high as a single piece.

11. Kings are limited to moving diagonally, but may move both forward and backward. (Remember that 
    single pieces, i.e. non-kings, are always limited to forward moves.)

12. Kings may combine jumps in several directions -- forward and backward -- on the same turn. Single 
    pieces may shift direction diagonally during a multiple capture turn, but must always jump 
    forward (toward the opponent)

13. A player wins the game when the opponent cannot make a move. In most cases, this is because all 
    of the opponent's pieces have been captured, but it could also be because all of his pieces are 
    blocked in.
